Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Wayne Dal: Morning.
Wayne Dal: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just walking out a group doing dive ran late on you.
Wayne Dal: Know it's only like four after eight oh
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so Wayne, could we do today where maybe find
Gwenevere Abriel: Someplace like to prop your phone up on a book on a box so that your, your, see how you're kind of looking at me almost Idi but we need a little bit of distance like about arm's length away. Can we pull that off today. Do you think
Wayne Dal: Yeah, let me go see
Gwenevere Abriel: It because I still I just walked in here coming from grew up I'm gonna open up a note for us.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just see you. I can't wait to hear all the doings.
Okay, that's very nice. Excellent. Most Excellent.
Wayne Dal: Sorry. It's weird, like
Gwenevere Abriel: No. No, we're good. I'm just so happy to have
Gwenevere Abriel: Know you didn't
Wayne Dal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh, I can't stand it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't stand. How cute puppy is I just
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't. What's the baby's name his name is yogi yogi yogi Yogi. Oh. Oh dear. Wait. Wait. Where's that sound coming from. It's coming from here I yogi
Wayne Dal: He's a, he's a brat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, we love those brats. Does he smell like a puppy.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Puppy.
Wayne Dal: Puppy. Puppy smell.
Gwenevere Abriel: And and
Wayne Dal: To give them
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, go get him. What, what's the
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the
Gwenevere Abriel: How many weeks old.
Wayne Dal: He was born, the day after Christmas, so I think 10 or 11 weeks now. Oh, that's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: There'll be no separation anxiety from his mama. No, I made
Wayne Dal: Sure, good and it's a boy. It is a
Gwenevere Abriel: Boy, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to train him so he brings a little bell and goes outside and once it says, Hey, I wonder what's it
Wayne Dal: Like having a newborn
Gwenevere Abriel: That potty training is going to be deafening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, everything
Gwenevere Abriel: But I gotta tell you something. There is a trainer out there. I have my my silly little Chihuahua. I'm not much I don't know much about dogs, but it got me a little Chihuahua thing and
Gwenevere Abriel: I can train that dog. He does. He dances, he gives me pause. He does this little, um, I call it the army crawl I try
Gwenevere Abriel: to sneak across the carpet like this Denton, Denton, Denton, Denton, and he'll high five. He'll. He'll rollover. Um, it's really smart and I did it all with positive training always
Wayne Dal: Good, yeah.
Yeah, but
Wayne Dal: That's kind of what we're trying to do too.
Wayne Dal: But yeah, and he's teething and all he wants to do is fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Choo choo choo choo choo get lots and lots of different chew toys around just lots of choice become options for things. He can chew on.
Gwenevere Abriel: positively reinforced when he goes to the right shoe. We give them a little positive really yummy treat this guy. I remember his name. Little trainer on YouTube. I learned everything from him. I was so good. Can't believe
Wayne Dal: I'll have to look that guy up
Gwenevere Abriel: Something, George. I'm really good. And they'll literally he could bring up if you install a little, a little bell next to the door when he wants to go potty ego ring a bell and
Wayne Dal: That would be cool. You there really isn't
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, I mean, how big can the brain of a chihuahua be really
Wayne Dal: Really smart so dogs are smart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, they know what's up. But this party anything is going to be the death of me because I'm trying to have a peep had trained this
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's a boy dog.
Wayne Dal: I you know how great he is I'm trying to do the same thing but I passed by the door. You know where I want him to go out
Wayne Dal: Sometimes you'll use it. But other times, catch him in the act.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's been hard.
Wayne Dal: Forgot what was that
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, it's so hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me see, once you tell me a little bit about how your health is one of your goals was to make sure that you follow through with your
Gwenevere Abriel: Your physician appointments and follow up appointments. Have you been doing that.
Wayne Dal: I've done that I have appointment with my primary physician. I think next week.
Wayne Dal: My health has been good. I'm still, you know, recovering
Wayne Dal: But my lungs fill a lot better.
Wayne Dal: And I'm just feeling a lot better. So I've been doing a lot more exercising.
Wayne Dal: So,
Wayne Dal: It's been going good. As far as my physical health.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know I'm not looking at you, but I need to pull up a note and it's it's not it's not a smooth process right now. Tell me a little bit about the dynamics with your son right now.
Wayne Dal: My son is moved out.
Wayne Dal: No.
Wayne Dal: He did.
Win.
Wayne Dal: Oh, couple weeks ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: How did that come about.
Wayne Dal: Well, he
Wayne Dal: Has a girlfriend now.
Wayne Dal: So,
Wayne Dal: He moved in with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think of her
Wayne Dal: She's really nice.
Wayne Dal: And he's really good actually. We know her family and stuff. Oh.
Wayne Dal: My wife used to work with her with her mom like, years and years and years ago. So we know her family and
Wayne Dal: She has a real good head on her shoulders and she keeps them in line, so it's it's it's a good relationship.
Gwenevere Abriel: Complimentary he
Wayne Dal: He I think they rushed into it a little bit, you know, as far as moving in with each other. Yeah, but you know they're they're grown up, but don't so you know they can make their own decisions. And I just think he's in a lot better place, and he was, you know, a couple years ago.
Wayne Dal: He still has some work to do on himself and I've let him know that you know that he needs to go to counseling and then get his anger issues dealt with and you know because he doesn't want to take that into a new relationship.
Wayne Dal: But all in all, they seem happy.
Wayne Dal: And I'm happy to have him gone
Wayne Dal: So that's, that's what's going on with him.
Wayne Dal: He has a he has a pretty good job.
Wayne Dal: So I'm happy about that.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, it's it with him. He got a car.
Wayne Dal: So, you know, he's he's moving in the right direction.
Wayne Dal: So I feel good about it. You know, I know he's not in I know in my heart. He's, he's not in the same place as he was, you know, when he came to live with us.
Wayne Dal: So,
Wayne Dal: I have a good feeling about it.
Wayne Dal: All right. Don't worry about it, you know.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I have I want more time for me and my needs. It's been a while. So we need to update our goals. Give me an example of where you're creating time for me and my knees. Give me a little story about how that's true or not true for
Wayne Dal: You now that he's done.
Wayne Dal: Now I have all the time in the world to myself.
Wayne Dal: Basically right now all my attention goes to this puppy.
Wayne Dal: And my other dog.
Wayne Dal: You know I'm fixing up the house a little bit, you know, kind of like, you know, spring cleaning the blinds.
Wayne Dal: Stuff like that. Read a painting some some walls need to be paying it
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: I haven't yet. I'm going to the
Gwenevere Abriel: Bathroom
Wayne Dal: That's next actually we bought new light fixtures and stuff so
Wayne Dal: I've been busy putting those up. How fun though. Yeah, I've been keeping myself pretty pretty busy and, you know, I do have the long time now. So
Gwenevere Abriel: When we set that goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: It wasn't there was no
Gwenevere Abriel: It was more like will set limits and expectations boundaries with family members.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that you can have me time and it was a measurement of from three
Gwenevere Abriel: To six or seven a day so me time you wanted it many times throughout the day. What number are you at, have you reached this goal. So let's give it a number
Wayne Dal: And see where. Yeah, I would say it's a
Wayne Dal: I would say turn tune because okay
Gwenevere Abriel: So should we close that goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Nicely done, man.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's more challenging when there's other people around so that same skill that it takes to set the limits. You don't have to do it when they're not around, so
Gwenevere Abriel: It may still come up again and we can reset things. If you notice, though, there I am again getting angry instead of asserting you know
Wayne Dal: It'll come up. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but let me let me put achieved here so that we can get behind other ones that you want to work on. So we got achieved. All right, we got three
Gwenevere Abriel: Today is 317. Okay, the next one change routine and morning. Part of the reason why you were wanting to do that as you were looking ahead to tapering you also have a very new thing which is I think you have stopped the thing
Oh, yeah.
Wayne Dal: Movie for
Wayne Dal: No, no. Since the beginning of February. Congratulations.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so amazed. Did you ever think that was possible.
Wayne Dal: You know, no, I didn't think I was gonna stop you know i wanted to
Wayne Dal: It was kind of forced upon me so
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I'm real excited about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So changing routine in the morning. So finally, increased frequency from zero to five days a week, changing routine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go for walk water trees make lunch take Listerine strip before taking Suboxone and I know you have the puppy. So I want to hear about can't be passive about this. This takes effort right
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you doing that supports changing routine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me about what your morning looks like in the morning.
Wayne Dal: Well, my morning is
Gwenevere Abriel: The past couple weeks it's
Wayne Dal: Been getting up at five o'clock.
Wayne Dal: With the puppy.
Wayne Dal: Course
Wayne Dal: Taking him outside
Wayne Dal: You know, taking them around and walk him around so you can use the bathroom.
Wayne Dal: You're coming in feeding him, you know, dealing with my other dog, getting them in that in now feeding them and then starting the, you know, lunch for word, and that kind of stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you notice. Okay, let me ask, Why are you taking the strip
Wayne Dal: Oh,
Wayne Dal: Well, I haven't taken it this morning, yet so
Wayne Dal: About probably nine 930 10 somewhere around there.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Other days when you forget to take it.
Wayne Dal: There's days where no I don't ever forget to take it. Okay, but I'll, I'll snap that I need to. And I mean, I'll just, oh yeah.
Wayne Dal: You know, so I don't ever go a day without taking him or anything.
Wayne Dal: But, you know, I'm a one and a half. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: One and a half.
Wayne Dal: mil yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me put that down here. Okay, that was you did a big drop when you did this hospitalization. Is that right,
Wayne Dal: Oh, I was at two and then
Wayne Dal: Actually the dark
Wayne Dal: Actually the doc.
Wayne Dal: Said, it's time to take her
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Wayne Dal: So I've been at to for a few for probably about three, three weeks or so. Okay, and all this stuff happened so I for the last group.
Wayne Dal: I went down to 1.1 point five.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what would you like to do moving forward around education. What do you want to do with it.
Wayne Dal: I want to keep, keep going. I want to go down to one.
Wayne Dal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: When, when are you thinking, I'll just make a little note. Just when you think I
Wayne Dal: was planning on doing it tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And are you having any withdrawal symptoms.
Wayne Dal: On the one point, you know, no.
Wayne Dal: No, I haven't. You know, I've been taking the Connor team and stuff. If I start to sweat. But
Wayne Dal: I've noticed I've been kind of tired at the end of the day, and I don't know if that's because I'm getting up so early.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I mean, isn't that a couple of hours earlier than what you were doing.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, it's, it's real early so
Wayne Dal: You know that's that's about it. You know, I don't have
Wayne Dal: You know, if I do have, you know, start sweating. I'll take the quantity but
Wayne Dal: Other than that, no. No cravings.
Gwenevere Abriel: So instead of having a craving when there is a disconnection with someone when there's a disagreement with there's a negative experience when you are angry or irritated. What do you do
Wayne Dal: What do I do
Wayne Dal: Go to that.
Wayne Dal: alone time
Wayne Dal: That way I can sit and think about, you know, whatever the issue is
Wayne Dal: If I, if not you know i resort to, you know, just
Wayne Dal: Breathing and thinking about
Wayne Dal: My response before I say
Gwenevere Abriel: Have a plan for today, it's going to feel a little different.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can always declined. But I want to talk to you a little bit about a different approach. And it has to do with a larger sort of developmental trauma.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which is get those past feelings out of me and be positive. That's that kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Past that may still be with you that may still feel like I don't have a choice in the moment around my anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm going to check in with that in just about a second but I just want to make sure
Gwenevere Abriel: That I've written notes here. So let me just write a little bit more. Okay, updated.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I go to alone time and I sit and think about the issue.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or I resort to breathing and think about my response. Before I see
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Very nice. Okay, that is under the goal of letting things go
Gwenevere Abriel: How would you you assess when you said it what you will know we had a number. This is a hard thing to measure client will increase frequency of instances of I say my piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let it alone from a frequency of 20% to 30 over the next three days. So that was a very, I thought it looks like I thought it was
Gwenevere Abriel: You pretty quickly. So thinking about just kind of rewind the last couple months here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You say your piece. Let it alone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Last time we checked in. You read about 50 I've been concentrating on that it has been just become a habit. Again, other than 50% that was see
Gwenevere Abriel: Baba, Baba, Baba. Oh, October I do it all the time. I don't linger on it. I say it, and that's it. November, letting go of irritation in father in law he feel sorry for himself now thinking he's an old man who deserves better.
Gwenevere Abriel: So those are little snapshots. I make little notes.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Wayne Dal: I think, I think I'm probably about 85 90% now.
Wayne Dal: Where I say what I have to say. And that's it. I study it and that's all it needs to be done.
Wayne Dal: So it's pretty much at that percentage, but something that I just, I don't know, it's like
Wayne Dal: Just like instinct or just admin or something. Now, where I know that's what I have to do is just set and
Wayne Dal: Forget about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to keep this goal open or you feel like you've reached letting
Wayne Dal: I think I've reached my goal of of not lingering on and holding on to
Wayne Dal: To stuff.
Me too.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think so too.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're human. We're not perfect. Sometimes we take personally things we get ourselves offended.
Gwenevere Abriel: But 85% pretty darn good. You take that put it under are achieved airier your eyes for Nash Nash. Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you say oh go rich. We're going to take this one out to cut
Gwenevere Abriel: Taste.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that leaves us with
Gwenevere Abriel: Something you would like to
Gwenevere Abriel: Miami's calling me for some reason and
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to get my vote.
Probably
Gwenevere Abriel: See
Gwenevere Abriel: You think about goals. Right now, the only thing I have left right now whether your stated goals is changing routine in the morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: No, we already close that one out. Sorry change. What do I have to have those wanted to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: More meantime change the routine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm I may want to keep down a little bit.
Wayne Dal: I think my, my main goal now is to get off Suboxone
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, but
Wayne Dal: My main yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: That's off. And so you want to do more of this less use of Suboxone and you're already doing that you're that one. We've got get you that one's ongoing
Gwenevere Abriel: That's
Gwenevere Abriel: That's this one to get off the Suboxone and not be dependent on anything for my life. So I'm going to grab this one copy and we're going to write
Gwenevere Abriel: Actual tape or plan that you like and then we can kind of watch it over the coming months.
Okay.
Wayne Dal: The end of the year.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I can't remember licious walk this through how frequently. So let's say you do will go, let's say one. This is just a template one milligrams will say three slash
Gwenevere Abriel: then a week later, would you want to say, do you think at one milligram for two weeks.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I think.
Wayne Dal: I'm gonna go down one tomorrow and
Probably for a couple weeks.
Wayne Dal: And it all depends on how my body relax. You mean exactly
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Wayne Dal: Think two weeks is a good is a good
Wayne Dal: It's a good amount of time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So once you look at your account. Well, that's not true. I can do.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is just a place for us to to explore. Let's go calendar so two weeks, one would be at March 25 another week would be April 2 which I'm guessing you go 2.75
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I'm going to put two weeks from there, just, let's just look at it together.
Wayne Dal: Okay. It was the first day of April.
Up to four.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. Then we have 416
Gwenevere Abriel: Would be 50 milligrams
Gwenevere Abriel: And then of course 16
And then April 30, I guess.
point two five.
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess is, you're going to want to stay there for a month. That's my goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know this is a rough, but this gives you something to look at. And what we'll do is we'll just cross compare and see where you're at and you can inform this is what's going on for me. I can tell.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you want me to. I can tell the doctor kind of what basic template is what your plan is and you can ask her questions like, well, if I did it like this. Well, how am I feel and what happens next.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so far, when I've seen people get ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me see that would put us at five.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's say
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to say 527 I'm going to say 527 only because what you're doing is
Gwenevere Abriel: Moving it from Wednesday to Wednesday. Wednesday. So I just did. It's weird because I want to send it out on Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because that's when your group day is but right now it's at a Wednesday. It's not that it's not that critical. So let's just not overanalyze it
Gwenevere Abriel: So though may, I'm just going to stick with the Wednesday, so that I can keep myself together here.
Wayne Dal: 1.25 Do I just go completely off or not.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so that's the question. So here's what I see, I see. You would be
Gwenevere Abriel: at point two five between April 30 all the way to about may 27 so here it is right, you said at the end of the year. So I noticed that you said the end of the year.
Wayne Dal: Because I want to take my time. You know, I don't want to
Wayne Dal: Well, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Why, why don't you want to rush just see if you can answer that.
Wayne Dal: I just want to do it comfortably. You know, I don't know how long it will actually take two
Wayne Dal: Is totally off.
Wayne Dal: You know what I mean. That's why I asked if
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go backwards then let's go this way for point two five. I'm asked about this part you're asking right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I've only had a couple clients do it and they don't do it right in front of me. They do it over long weekend with the doc and I don't get to hear what's going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's usually abrupt because they're leaving the state. So this is what I've heard, if you're going to do point two five.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think ideal is a minimum of two weeks. So that says to me easily a month and then I think what she does is over a weekend. She stays in close contact with you. She gets you on the clock zone and
Gwenevere Abriel: There's very there's like, I think it's this tiny little, little bit of the morphine and then slowly. It's just the no locks on and there is, from what I've seen, there is some discomfort, meaning
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to have probably those calls west. That's your go to kind of symptom. And you may want to have three days, but it's never going to be the full kick experience. Okay, it's still going to be what you've been doing all year.
Gwenevere Abriel: But from what I've heard. It is a little bit more intense as those last receptors are absorbed. Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I've heard. Now she may have. That's the part I can't really I'm not really witness to how she does this thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But then the locks on alone. The way she describes it is that it's such an amazing because it sits on the receptors.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't have cravings. You don't have any of the allergies that part. You don't have any of the euphoria that tiny bit maybe that you're still getting you know when it hits your bloodstream. Okay, there it is, that's not there doesn't have any euphoric effect.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it does sit on the receptors. So you're not going to have the craving.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I'm hearing so minimum of a month, but you would have put together a month. Now let's say you don't go at the two weeks.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could do point seven five all the way to May you could do point five all the way through June, you could do. I mean point 509 point two five all the way through July, but still, it's still
Gwenevere Abriel: When you said all the way to the end of the year. That's
Wayne Dal: Easier. And I'm trying to say so.
Gwenevere Abriel: In either way, the question has to do with
Gwenevere Abriel: When you say I want to do it carefully. I want to do it slowly.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not going to probably be like what happened in the hospital where you had to make a difficult choice around the beeping. This is still going to be you. It's going to be left to you deciding, am I ready to live my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Without this, so that's the part where you and I get into it. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I wrote this down and we can change it the next time we meet, but it's a place to look at. It's a point of
Wayne Dal: Departure okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you get to I get to write it and you say, oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: So I might say, I'll just say in end of may meet with Dr. Aubrey L to explore
Gwenevere Abriel: taper off protocol, you're still on a taper down okay and not on an off some people stay at this for many months. This is going to be up to you, up to your doctor, you and I, in coordination, but you know, I'm not pushing this
Gwenevere Abriel: You're at a safe dose right now based on her language.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. So yeah, I would like to be off by the end of the year, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk about
Gwenevere Abriel: What you would need to do in order to feel more confident about that. So right now, how important is it to you. Let's go a scale will do MIT the motivational interviewing
Gwenevere Abriel: I am i mean
Gwenevere Abriel: How important is it on a scale of zero to 10 it's you taper off by the end of the year zero to 10 how important
Wayne Dal: Oh, I would say it's a 10
Wayne Dal: Really to go yes it's it's my ultimate goal right now is to be off by the end of the year.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now from zero to 10 How confident are you that you can do that by the end of the year.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And so why is it not a five. Would you say
Wayne Dal: Because
Wayne Dal: I'm confident in myself and
Wayne Dal: I've made up my mind to set a goal.
Wayne Dal: And I know I can do it. I can overcome anything
Wayne Dal: I know I'm strong enough to do it and
Wayne Dal: That's what I want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And if it was in the next six months, how confident, would you be
Wayne Dal: Probably about the same, maybe a nine. Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know why it goes down.
Wayne Dal: Low just less time, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: What we
Gwenevere Abriel: Do at this time.
Wayne Dal: My main goal is to be comfortable, you know, and not
Wayne Dal: That that's that's just my main
Wayne Dal: Concern is just to be comfortable
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: I guess that's it. Just, just to be comfortable doing it. That's why I gave me, you know, that's why I first aid at the end of the year was my goal.
Wayne Dal: You know, because I don't know how long it'll take me to adjust to 2.75 or half point two five.
Wayne Dal: You know, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, alright, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk about what you would need to do in order to accomplish that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take a close look at this comfort. That's a big piece for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: The comfort.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm noticing today on your on you said I'm going to taper. I'm going to do it tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've been meeting discomfort. I'm assuming that's what the sweats are is that the uncomfortable. Well,
Wayne Dal: Yeah yeah
Wayne Dal: And I guess I forget that it's pretty much only sweat. You know, I mean it's not full blown withdraw. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but we do forget we forget
Yeah.
Wayne Dal: Like, I think that's just the fear of it all is just to that feeling of full blown withdraw.
Okay, so please
Gwenevere Abriel: Stay with that hold that right there. Hold that right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is the primary concern is, it's a thought. I remember full blown withdrawal and you associated with being off of this is that right
Wayne Dal: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What else
Wayne Dal: Not are not having it. I guess I'm gonna mean
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go. Tell me more about the non HAVING SO NOTICE HOW IN THE MORNING. IT'S NOT embedded in a in a set time, which I'm going to invite you to do is to embed it and stack it with other things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even right next to the dog food. Right. Like it's already embedded in routine where it's not a I want to extinguish that you are snapping
Gwenevere Abriel: To it and because if it's a snap meaning remembering my concern is that its associated with an uncomfortable thought threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worried about the future. Oh, I just got anxious. Oh, I could now I just snapped to it. I want to get rid of anything that has to do with the addictive behavior part but
Gwenevere Abriel: The mornings made up with I get up i p i can make coffee. Then I empty the dishwasher I brush my teeth, I take the dog for walk you see there are not only a few there's all of these stack things
Gwenevere Abriel: And earlier when we were changing routine. I wanted it stacked in there before. But you and I haven't been meeting quite as often and whatever, but it's not too late. We can do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'd like to have that strip, if possible stack in with other things, you're already doing that has nothing to do with emotionally regulating
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't want any of the reaching. I just wanted to be stacked in there with something that you're already doing. Where can you see where could you do it.
Wayne Dal: A good dude right before I go to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where would it be that that would be stacked in because
Wayne Dal: It would be in the middle of doing everything here in the morning, you know, my whole spiel here in the morning and you know going to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you do right before you go to work.
Wayne Dal: Basically, you know, once I really go to work I shower, get dressed and I'm done everything else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here.
Let's talk about the show.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you take a shower. Where do you typically store the strips. Where do you store.
Wayne Dal: Oh my closet.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you're out of the shower. You go out underwear. You get dressed. So there, you're already in the closet. Is there a way to have a little sticky, a little something there that reminds you to reach for it right then you're in there putting dress shirt on. Are you putting a dress. Yeah.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, no. Well button down shirt or, you know, polo shirt, something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it better there than in the underwear drawer. What's a you absolutely going on right thing
Wayne Dal: It's right by my my shirt. So, okay.
Wayne Dal: Just where you don't know the grandkids can find it or anything like that, you know, so it's right there right by my shirt. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So by shirts. Can you put. Can you put a little something to maybe behind the door so that you could see it. It could be a little drawing some little symbol.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I can actually hang a piece of paper on my shelves. It says, take your community.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or yeah, something that you doesn't have to be. But as long as you know what it means.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay, that'll be the objective. That's the new behavior. So client will take it right after shower.
Gwenevere Abriel: While
Gwenevere Abriel: Dressing
I'm gonna say actually while
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to say in closet, you know, basically near wiling closet, putting on a shirt is a specific but I want to get something set in place. They're coming on the shirt will put
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you'll have like finishing putting shirt on getting whatever preparation while it's absorbing right
Huh. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, how many times you already do that. Just like that zero or sometimes
Wayne Dal: Just like that.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, sometimes I would say
Gwenevere Abriel: So can I put once a week to five times a week to seven times a week. What
Wayne Dal: Probably about two times a week.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's how many you're already doing it or how many want to do it.
Wayne Dal: Well, I want to do it every week, every day. So seven times.
Gwenevere Abriel: On a say from tune. That's where we're at. To seven this Saturday and Sunday might be more difficult because you might be sleeping it maybe
Wayne Dal: Not for the foreseeable future.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're probably going to need another one. Um, maybe by the door when you go take him out for a walk. You might need another one there something simple, just a picture of
Wayne Dal: Something
Gwenevere Abriel: That represents that because when you're walking. It can be dissolving
That's true.
Wayne Dal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here we go. So we've got from zero to seven days a week. There we go. Yeah, and I didn't create enough time for my
Gwenevere Abriel: Interview intervention. I wanted to do, but I can get started doing the preparation of it real quick.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, Wayne. I want to do a little bit of imagery with you. I want to start to prepare
Gwenevere Abriel: To do a little bit of some deeper, deeper psychotherapy, just to really take a look if there's any charge left and some of that trauma history of years.
Gwenevere Abriel: We've done a little bit of it. I just want to kind of try this other technique which I've had some success with here in bright heart, to my surprise, it's been effective. And it's the FDR
Gwenevere Abriel: And it does ask that we'd be like this sitting here, remind me. You're, you're in the iPad or iPhone phone phone
Wayne Dal: IPad beautiful
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's about 11 inches wide or something. So when you
Wayne Dal: Create an iPad Mini. So just let you know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's fine. So I might end up asking you on a day that we do it that you have two containers right next to the to the mini and so it'd be like this. How far away arm's length away shoulder width apart and drop them next to your iPad Mini. Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, out here so
Wayne Dal: That's how far the
Wayne Dal: IPad needs to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly. And then what you would end up doing is when we meet, I would say, I want you to look at the to the tops of those two objects.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just going over some of the comfort pieces and I would have you just with your eyes, not with your head.
Gwenevere Abriel: Looking at the tops of them at the rate that I'm pointing. So you'd be looking at the tops of them as I'm pointing. You don't have to look at me. Let me just see. Look at the tops of maybe the top of the corners of the
Gwenevere Abriel: IPad
Wayne Dal: Some chairs here. There, I could look at the top corners of
Gwenevere Abriel: So yeah, so next time it would they need to be right here right next to where my fingers because I'll be changing the rate
Gwenevere Abriel: I've noticed, like I've had to really adapt to people doing this in their car and so over time. I found what works. Okay, so that's the bilateral stimulation. That's the part of the eye movement.
Gwenevere Abriel: It, it is helpful and beneficial. It's the go to evidence based treatment for PTSD and what it does, it's kind of neat for people that don't want to tell their story. You certainly can. But for a lot of people didn't really want to retell, you know, sometimes they don't want to re traumatize
Wayne Dal: Themselves.
Gwenevere Abriel: By retelling stories. So what this does is it says you think of it, hold it in your working memory, which means you pull it from the hippocampus.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are all that memory is stored and you think about it, you don't have to tell you what it is. You think about it, and then I'll be doing some target mapping. There's a lot of steps to this, but the bottom line is you don't have to
Gwenevere Abriel: Retail your story. You think about it. You hold it there in the imagery and then I do my work.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: In preparation, I'm talking fast because I've only got 10 minutes here. I want to do a little bit more preparation around that and talk about some imagery. The first one I want to do has to do with
Gwenevere Abriel: A container.
Gwenevere Abriel: An emotional container.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to think about a box.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nope, doesn't even have to be a box want to think about how many people come up with things. I wish I knew soapbox anything. It could be any container. These are the requirements.
Gwenevere Abriel: That'd be big enough and strong enough to hold all your emotional stuff. So those are the only constraints doesn't actually have to be a box, it can be whatever you want. So when you first unfortunately I stuck that word in there. And so now I probably mess with your own imagination, but
Wayne Dal: No containers. I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you think of
Wayne Dal: A jar.
Wayne Dal: Right off the bat, when
Wayne Dal: You first said container. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Big enough and strong enough to hold all your emotional stuff. Do you want to change it from jar, keep it as a jar.
Wayne Dal: Um, I think we can keep it as jar.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And how big is it
Wayne Dal: About
Wayne Dal: A gallon
Wayne Dal: Gallon and was like one of those big 70 jars. You know what I mean.
Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: And can you see through it.
Wayne Dal: Yes. Okay, can see
Gwenevere Abriel: And we need some sort of lid and locking system.
Wayne Dal: It has a plastic lid with a block on the top.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and how is it, how is it a latch or lock where you got to keep
Wayne Dal: It's a, it's, it's kind of a latch and as a lock on the left. Okay.
With lock.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And this is kind of the weird part of this question.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that stuff, want to stay in there, and if so, is there something in there. So there's an environment that we make inside that sun tea jar.
Gwenevere Abriel: That that gallon jar that that stuff will want to stay. So could we put something in there that all that stuff would want to stay in there, or do we need to take a really close look at the locking system.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I think it would want some of the stuff in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, why is it want to stay in there.
Wayne Dal: While we're trying to get that stuff out. You know, I don't want some of that stuff in me, you know, what are in that jar. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I may explore that further next time. Let's keep going. Let's do this other one which has to do with a distancing metaphor. This one's really great
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to give you some examples of other people's metaphor and you can come up with your own or use one of the ones that I share. So a distancing metaphor is imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: That involves process, which means it's in motion, and it's moving further away. So, very common one is you're somewhere off on the side of a river bank.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe you're thinking of a negative memory childhood or you're feeling angry of disappointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you put it on a leaf, you can kind of picture that it's slowly floating further away to the point that you can't even see the leaf anymore, but you are grounded.
Gwenevere Abriel: And settled on the side of the river, other people it is spaceship taken off really fast into outer space, some people, it's a helium balloon and it's slowly floating out in two
Gwenevere Abriel: Hemispheres hemisphere there. So then we have sailboat, and I'm on the sea side I have a fast racing boat. I also I'm in a car this way and this thing comes around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Passing my opposite direction. That was my distancing metaphor. And I can see it in my rearview getting smaller.
Gwenevere Abriel: And smaller and I'm going in the opposite direction. So giving you a couple of examples or a train. Also, it could
Gwenevere Abriel: Be put in a train car and you can hear it click, click, click, click, click, and it's moving further and further away.
Gwenevere Abriel: To the point you can't see the training more, but notice that all of these distancing metaphors.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is where we would take something negative, probably put it in there and have some distance from it, and it would move further away, but they're all process, which means they don't just
Gwenevere Abriel: hit the floor and land, they are moving away to the point that we can't see them any more. So in your imagination, what do you like as a distancing metaphor, one that I can bring us back to if we need at the end of a session when you might be emotionally activated, something like that.
Wayne Dal: I would, I would go airplane.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, there we go. Just
Wayne Dal: Put it on the airplane and fly away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, next one.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are a little bit more difficult to get to. If we don't get all the way through it. That's okay. I'm working fast.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are three three images and those are the
Gwenevere Abriel: These can be real or imagined Wayne
Gwenevere Abriel: Imagined which includes a movie a book TV show or just straight out of your imagination could be an animal could be a real person could be just a quality of someone you only knew for 10 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'm looking for here is I want you to think about when I say to you, I want you to bring in your mind's eye, real or imagined a tentative figure
Gwenevere Abriel: Has the qualities
Gwenevere Abriel: Of protection, what comes to mind.
Wayne Dal: Grandpa.
Gwenevere Abriel: Grandpa. Are there any mixed feelings about that. Are there times when he hurt you and was an unsafe person, is there any dissonance mixture in it. No.
Wayne Dal: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Love it. Then grandpa it Shelby
Gwenevere Abriel: Now let's go to another figure really important one as well.
Gwenevere Abriel: real or imagined nurturing figure. This is a figure that wants for you, your growth wants for you, your development and your potential absolutely wants it for you, for you to grow and develop
Gwenevere Abriel: May include affection in may not nurturing has to do with growth and development nurturing your growth and development, real or imagined.
Gwenevere Abriel: What comes up.
Wayne Dal: Um, I have to say my grandma.
Wayne Dal: My grandma and grandpa like the only people that
Wayne Dal: I feel wherever nurturing and loving and never hurt me, you know, and I felt safe with them so
Wayne Dal: I have to say those two
Gwenevere Abriel: Next one. This is the third figure real or imagined a wise figure that has the quality of wisdom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, now go to creative go to favorite movie favorite TV show someone that you're like a could be a spiritual failure. Don't forget there's that right. Don't forget those pieces to wisdom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Knows what to do, knows how to do it. Maybe it's stored knowledge. Maybe it's experiential learning just give yourself the space to come up with something. Just take your time.
Wayne Dal: I would just have to see God because that
Gwenevere Abriel: Makes sense. Awfully wise, right.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Sounds good. Alright, so we did a lot of work really fast, which means that
Gwenevere Abriel: The next time we meet
Gwenevere Abriel: We might be able to start to work on work on the target negative cognition.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's schedule. Our next appointment to get up.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do you, when's your plan to actually go to grow up. You want me to tell you
Wayne Dal: Women next group. So I'll do Monday. Yes, I'm here. I just was that we're stuck at work.
Wayne Dal: Either Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Monday the 23rd.
Gwenevere Abriel: One.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, excellent. And when do you want to meet again fer fer
Wayne Dal: You tell me.
Wayne Dal: Do whatever your schedule allows
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you be able to meet at 8am march 31 on a Tuesday, it's going to feel a lot like this right after group.
Wayne Dal: My birthday so
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you sure you want to do it then.
Wayne Dal: Yes. So start my day off. Great.
Okay.
Wayne Dal: Is that a Tuesday.
It is
Wayne Dal: Tuesday.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, that's fine.
Wayne Dal: It's just another day, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Celebrate it like on Friday or something more.
Wayne Dal: don't celebrate my birthday.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got to talk to your wife about that.
Wayne Dal: Will go out to eat or something but
Wayne Dal: I was gonna ask you. I do need a refill my mad. So can you let the doctor know I came to see you reckon called bright heart to have them. Yes, I will enter safe close. Let me go over
Gwenevere Abriel: Over slack right now.
Let's go over here because I don't
Like okay, we have Wayne
See
Starting
Tomorrow,
And needs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Order. Do you need any other medication.
No.
Denies meeting.
Gwenevere Abriel: Their support medication.
Next,
Wayne Dal: Sorry to lay that on you, but since it wasn't on group yesterday, I wanted to make sure that she knew like medication.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did meta K when x
Gwenevere Abriel: X appointment is
Gwenevere Abriel: 23 one then okay and I am hitting send okay done. All right. I will see you on Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay. See you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go yogi